---
title: "Check-in"
---
# Check-in

*Suggested timing: 15 minutes* 

By the end of this module, you will:
- Start to develop an idea of what learning circles look like in practice. 
- Understand P2PU and the values that underlie our work.
- Understand the theory behind learning circles, and why they work.
- Be able to talk about both P2PU and learning circles in your own words.


## Group Introductions
For the first check-in, make sure that you are all gathered in a circle so that everybody can see everybody else. Figure out whose birthday is closest to today—this person will introduce themselves first!
- If the group already knows one another, you can start by sharing what you hope to achieve by taking this course, as well as any prior experience that you may have with learning circles.
- If most people have not met one another before, then start with names and some personal (but not too personal) questions. “How did you get here today?” usually works well.


> Before moving on to the next section, take a moment to make sure that all participants in your group can access these online course materials. P2PU courses are all [openly licensed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_free_and_open-source_software_licenses), meaning that our courses are not only free, but also fully accessible without needing to create an account for login. When you’re facilitating a learning circle with a different online course, you may need to spend more time with your learners ensuring they’re able to login, remember their password, etc.
 
